- RANGER: Give 'em hell, director!
- JESSE: Hello?
Anyone here?
Guess not.
Seems a lot more crowded
than the rest of the bureau.
I'm no detective,
but something...
...definitely happened here.
- WAKE: Do we know each other?
I feel...
This feels familiar.
I can't seem to...
I've forgotten...
I'm sorry.
I'm...
My name is Alan Wake.
Who are you?
Do I know you?
- ZANE: I'm your friend, Tom.
Tom Zane.
There's nothing to worry about.
- WAKE: Tom?
The poet?
The diver, you looks different.
- ZANE: That was just a role...
...a character.
The protagonist I played
in my old film.
I'm a film maker.
An auteur like yourself.
We're working on this together, remember?
An artistic collaboration.
You need a drink.
- WAKE: (COUGHS)
Endless...
...darkness.
Nothing holds still.
- ZANE: But we're very close now.
You've been writing.
We found a way to escape.
It will work this time.
- WAKE: Writing?
- ZANE: You found a way!
- WAKE: No!
I-I don't...
Wait!
There's something...
It's my double!
He's out there!
I-I've seen him!
- ZANE: Yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah.
Nothing to worry about.
I'm dealing with it.
It's fine, my friend.
Let me handle him.
- WAKE: You've met him?
WHAT THE HELL?
- ZANE: Now now, come on!
You misunderstand me.
- JESSE: That was Alan Wake.
The writer who went missing
in that AWE case I read about.
What's he doing here?
And Thomas Zane was with him.
The poet.
No, wait.
He was a film maker
I was remembering that wrong.
(STATIC)
(WEIRD MUSIC FROM RADIO)
(VENDING MACHINE
OPERATES LOUDLY)
- WAKE: Dr. Amil Hartman.
Devoured by hungry darkness.
Became the thing that had been Hartman.
Broke loose.
Killed everyone it could.
Lurking, roaming, waiting.
Then something else came.
A resonance.
The thing that had been Hartman...
went through another change.
- JESSE: Creepy, damp, and abandoned.
Why did Wake want me to come here?
That doesn't look like a house shift.
Do I even wanna know?
Of course, the Hiss are already in here.
This...
...darkness is blocking the door, so...
Now I have to deal with an interdimensional noise
and sentient shadows.
Light burns it away, huh.
Makes sense.
- WAKE: The Third Thing.
The sound made darker.
The darkness made louder.
Hartman was stretched
like a worm through time.
The Third Thing was a monster.
Now he crashed out of darkness
towards Faden.
♪ (MUSIC FROM RADIO) ♪
- JESSE: Uh...
I don't feel right.
Something in this darkness
is draining me.
Shit!
Now what?
- ???: Hartman was stretched.
(ALARM SOUND)
- JESSE: What is that?
Come on, elevator. Time to go!
Fuck fuck fuck!
- ???: (GROANING)
- JESSE: So you don't like light?
I can use that.
There we go!
Yeah! How do you like that!
- LANGSTON: Ma'am? What are you
doing in Investigations?
- JESSE: Jesus! Don't scare me like that, Langston!
- LANGSTON: If you're talking right now,
I can't hear you. It's a one-way system.
Try to find an intercom.
- JESSE: Langston, it's me, Jesse.
- LANGSTON: I know! I can see you
on the monitors.
The cameras in there haven't worked
since we sealed that sector off a couple years back.
- JESSE: Let me guess, you sealed it
because of the monster guy?
- LANGSTON: Wait, did you see Dr. Hartman?
Jesus, I really wish you hadn't
opened that Firebreak.
Okay, listen. You need to find Hartman
and kill him before he gets out into the bureau.
- JESSE: That thing is a person?
- LANGSTON: He was a person.
We brought him here
to study after he was uh...
...altered in an AWE.
I forget the medical work for what happened
but now light physically hurts him.
Do you have a flashlight?
- JESSE: No.
- LANGSTON: Uh... a lantern? Headlamp?
A flare gun? Oh! Christmas lights!
You can wrap them around you...
- JESSE: I don't have any of those, Langston.
- LANGSTON: Shit.
Okay, uh... Well,
I'm sure you'll figure something.
I'll keep an eye on you
from the Panopticon.
This is kinda exciting, right?
- JESSE: Maybe from where you're standing.
- LANGSTON: Right, okay. Well uh...
Break a leg! Oh, why did I say that?
- JESSE: Okay, this Hartman thing
can't have gotten very far.
Let's go flush him out! Hm...
Langston was right.
This is kinda exciting.
- LANGSTON: It's just nice to have someone
to talk to, you know.
- JESSE: Ah, shit!
It's too dark in here to fight this thing!
(SCARY LAUGHTER)
Looks like whatever force had a hold on Hartman
isn't mixing well with the Hiss corruption
Wake... did call him the Third Thing.
Send a ranger to my location.
- RANGER: Let's do this!
- JESSE: I knew you'd be in here!
There!
One less place for him to hide.
- LANGSTON: I feel like
I'm doing all the talking.
But anyway...
It's just nice to have someone
to talk to, you know.
Ever since I got put in charge in the Panopticon people treat me different,
like I'm crazy for wanting to work with altered items.
People just don't understand
the altered items like I do, you know.
I don't want to brag but it does take a very
empathetic mind to connect with the items.
- JESSE: Doesn't want to brag?
Still, I don't know why people
are making it so personal.
(SCOFFS) Right.
I mean, the teams in Research handle paranatural materials
every day and no one thinks they're weird.
Well, maybe that's not true...
- LANGSTON: (STILL BLABBING
IN THE BACKGROUND)
- JESSE: This is the director.
I need immediate assistance.
- RANGER: Make way for the director!
- JESSE: Dammit!
Christ!
Did the Hartman thing do... all this?
Lots of dark corners to hide in.
Okay, let's get the lights on
and clear him out.
- HARTMAN: (GROANING)
- JESSE: Where is it running off to now?
We need a power core.
We need another power core.
Now where's the switch?
- LANGSTON: Director, ma'am!
Great timing!
Hartman just came through here.
God! He was hideous.
He tore the security door to the Bright Falls AWE site
wide open. He was so ugly, like...
Wow! I got a good look at him and... Christ!
He does not look like he used to.
The Hiss must've messed him up or something.
He looks like a bar rag that's been twisted by the world's strongest man...
...Or a monster from some '80s horror movie.
You know, back when it was all practicle effects, urgh! It's...
...nasty!
- JESSE: Real professional, Langston.
Did you say something?
Remember, I can't hear you!
- WAKE: I've written.
Rewritten.
The darkness wants to hide the past
to make me lose my way.
I trust what I read on these pages.
I wrote them for a reason.
Cut through the reality.
Tear it apart.
And rewrite it.
They are drawn
to the mystery.
- JESSE: It's stuck.
Let's go take care of it.
- WAKE: I've forgotten again.
I had a plan.
I know it!
I've forgotten.
He's coming!
I've gotta get out of here.
Dive deeper.
(DISTORTED SCREAMING)
- JESSE: Whatever is going on with Wake,
he clearly needs some help.
- WAKE: Going mad.
Wake had to escape...
Write... his... escape.
Wake needed a hero. A hero...
...needed a crisis.
For the part of the story
about the government agency...
Wake needed
something special.
Something to convey an alien force,
mimicking human intelligence.
- JESSE: Another replica.
Like the one they made for Ordinary.
This is the director.
I need a ranger
at this location immediately.
- HARTMAN: Darkness...
...in the driver seat.
- JESSE: There!
Now it's my turn!
Langston was right!
You are pretty rough
on the eyes, Dr. Hartman.
Hartman won't be
a problem anymore, Langston.
But Investigations
needs someone to run it.
Interested?
- LANGSTON: I've seen what happens
to sector heads, ma'am.
No, thank you.
Ma'am, I'm getting something on my terminal here.
An AWE alert from Bright Falls, Washington.
But it might be a glitch. The date's all wrong.
Couple of years in the future.
And we're in lockdown,
there shouldn't be any incoming signals.
- JESSE: Maybe it was active
before we went into lockdown?
Are there agents onsite?
- LANGSTON: Let me check.
Agent Estevez is the field agent
in charge of monitoring the site.
She should be there to let us know if the situation
has been through any major changes recently.
- WAKE: Things set in motion.
If the alarm's true, then
so is the reason for the alarm.
The effect must follow the cause.
It's happening again.
A return.
(MUSIC INTENSIFIES)
(MUSIC STOPS)
You have been warned.